.\" sample client/interface manual page.
.TH "SAMPLE" "1" "August 2007" "fakehalo" "Sample"
.SH "NAME"
sample \- interface to edit ~/.sample files
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsample\fR
[\fB\-vnrlt\fR] [\fB\-u\fR \fIuser\fR] [\fB\-e\fR \fIeditor\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
\fBsample\fR and its associated tools are intended to monitor ("sample") outdated/oversized files and handle them in a user\-defined fashion.  this can involve deleting, moving, or updating with new content among other things.

the \fBsample\fR program is a simple console\-based interface used to make and validate \fI~/.sample\fR files, similar to the respective use  of the crontab program.  however, the \fBsample\fR program is not required in any way to make your \fI~/.sample\fR file, it can be created/modified completely manually.

if no command\-line arguments are specified for \fBsample\fR it will attempt to edit the current user's \fI~/.sample\fR file.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-v\fR
shows the version information of \fBsample\fR
.TP 
\fB\-n\fR
if \fBsample\fR is making a new \fI~/.sample\fR file, it will not include the "help" configuration comments
.TP 
\fB\-r\fR
removes a user's \fI~/.sample\fR file (this can be used in conjunction with the \fB\-u\fR option)
.TP 
\fB\-l\fR
(root\-only) lists all potentially processable \fI~/.sample\fR and spooled sample (\fI~/.sample_spool/*\fR) files.  this is for admin maintenance/monitoring purposes (does not list \fI/etc/sampletab/*\fR files as they are already consolidated)
.TP 
\fB\-t\fR
(root\-only) switch to editing a user's "/etc/sampletab/\fBusername\fR", instead of "/home/\fBusername\fR/.sample" (this can be used in conjunction with the \fB\-u\fR option, this feature is explained in the \fBTABS\fR section)
.TP 
\fB\-u\fR \fIuser\fR
(root\-only) modify a specified user's \fI~/.sample\fR file, instead of their own
.TP 
\fB\-e\fR \fIeditor\fR
specify an alternate editor to edit your \fI~/.sample\fR file
.SH "FORMAT"
the format of your \fI~/.sample\fR file via the \fBsample\fR interface or by directly editing the file is a job\-per\-line format, similar to that of cron.  the format is:

[\fBTYPE\fR]		[\fBTIME\fR|\fBSIZE\fR]		[\fBPATH\fR]		[\fBEXEC\fR]

each value being separated by \fBTABS\fR (\\t).  the literal form of this is:

"if \fBTYPE\fR has past \fBTIME\fR for a file contained in \fBPATH\fR then run \fBEXEC\fR"

OR, for filesize comparisons:

"if \fBTYPE\fR is smaller/larger than \fBSIZE\fR for a file contained in \fBPATH\fR then run \fBEXEC\fR"

description of each field:

.PP 
.TP 
field [\fBTYPE\fR]:
value must be set to \fBone\fR of the following:
.br 
\fBA\fR	compare \fBTIME\fR to the last access of a file (older than)
.br 
\fBa\fR	compare \fBTIME\fR to the last access of a file (newer than)
.br 
\fBC\fR	compare \fBTIME\fR to the last status change of file (older than)
.br 
\fBc\fR	compare \fBTIME\fR to the last status change of file (newer than)
.br 
\fBM\fR	compare \fBTIME\fR to the last modification of file (older than)
.br 
\fBm\fR	compare \fBTIME\fR to the last modification of file (newer than)
.br 
\fBS\fR	compare \fBSIZE\fR to the size of file (greater than)
.br 
\fBs\fR	compare \fBSIZE\fR to the size of file (less than)
.br 
the lowercase versions of the above are lowercase because they are deemed less commonly used than the uppercase versions.

.TP 
field [\fBTIME\fR]:
for types \fBA\fR, \fBa\fR, \fBC\fR, \fBc\fR, \fBM\fR and \fBm\fR.  the value must be set to one or a combination of the following:
.br 
\fBs\fR	seconds	(ex. "60s")
.br 
\fBm\fR	minutes	(ex. "60m")
.br 
\fBh\fR	hours	(ex. "24h")
.br 
\fBd\fR	days 	(ex. "7d")
.br 
\fBw\fR	weeks	(ex. "52w")
.br 
\fBM\fR	months	(ex. "12M")
.br 
\fBY\fR	years	(ex. "1Y")
.br 
there should be no spaces in this field, for example "\fB1h30m\fR" would be the equivalent of matching a 90\-minute or older file(s).

.TP 
field [\fBSIZE\fR]:
for types \fBS\fR and \fBs\fR.  the value must be set to one or a combination of the following:
.br 
\fBB\fR	bytes	(ex. "1024B")
.br 
\fBK\fR	kilobytes	(ex. "1024K")
.br 
\fBM\fR	megabytes	(ex. "1024M")
.br 
\fBG\fR	gigabytes	(ex. "1G")
.br 
there should be no spaces in this field, for example "\fB1M512K\fR" would be the equivalent of matching a 1.5 meg file(s).

.TP 
field [\fBPATH\fR]:
the \fBPATH\fR field can be separated by colons (\fB:\fR) to include multiple paths to check for outdated/oversized files.  this format follows the wildcard method supported by most shells, for example "\fB~/*.txt:~/*.rtf\fR" would attempt to find all outdated/oversized .txt and .rtf files in your home directory.

.TP 
field [\fBEXEC\fR]:
this is executed if \fBsampled\fR finds an outdated/oversized file is found in \fBPATH\fR, the following variables will be filled in with their corresponding value:
.br 
\fB%%\fR	inserts a literal %
.br 
\fB%s\fR	exact path to the file matched		(shell\-escaped)
.br 
\fB%S\fR	exact path to the file matched		(NON\-escaped)
.br 
\fB%f\fR	only the filename of the matched path	(shell\-escaped)
.br 
\fB%F\fR	only the filename of the matched path	(NON\-escaped)
.br 
\fB%p\fR	only the path of the matched path		(shell\-escaped)
.br 
\fB%P\fR	only the path of the matched path		(NON\-escaped)
.br 
\fB%l\fR	symbolic link path, becomes \fB%s\fR if none	(shell\-escaped)
.br 
\fB%L\fR	symbolic link path, becomes \fB%S\fR if none	(NON\-escaped)
.br 
\fB%u\fR	file owner's user id
.br 
\fB%U\fR	file owner's user name
.br 
\fB%g\fR	file owner's group id
.br 
\fB%G\fR	file owner's group name
.br 
\fB%m\fR	(octal) file mode					(ex. "0777")
.br 
\fB%M\fR	(string) file mode					(ex. "\-rwxrwxrwx")
.br 
\fB%n\fR	size of the file in bytes
.br 
\fB%i\fR	inode of file
.br 
\fB%0\-9\fR	sub\-directory hierarchy variables
.SH "TABS"
sample tabs, found in /etc/sampletab/ by default, are sample files in exactly the same format as ~/.sample files except they are designed to be static and only editable by root.

in general terms; "/etc/sampletab/\fBusername\fR" is the same as "/home/\fBusername\fR/.sample", except the user cannot edit the sampletab version.

root can edit these files by appending the \fB\-t\fR argument to the \fBsample\fR command.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.PP 

.PP 
.TP 
an example \fI~/.sample\fR might look like:
.br 

# Set your desired shell. (may be restricted in some
.br 
# configurations)
.br 
\fBSHELL=/bin/sh\fR

# Move old file(s) in the home directory to a sub\-folder if
.br 
# they haven't been accessed/read in over 6 months.
.br 
\fBA	6M		~				mv \-f \-\- %s ~/old/%f\fR

# Remove (1.5 year old) unread inactive user's mail.
.br 
\fBA	1Y6M		/var/mail/		rm \-f \-\- %s\fR

# Remove files in /tmp/* and /var/tmp/* after 1 week of no
.br 
# modifications.
.br 
\fBM	1w		/tmp:/var/tmp		rm \-f \-\- %s\fR

# Update/regenerate a static (rss) webpage every 90 minutes.
.br 
# ("90m" also works)
.br 
\fBM	1h30m	~/www/site.rss		perl ~/make_rss.pl > %s\fR

# This would essentially make a drop folder/directory in /drop/,
.br 
# which would simply process and delete any file placed in
.br 
# the directory. (sampled, by default, runs on the minute.
.br 
# meaning this would not actually process every second)
.br 
\fBM	1s		/drop/			~/proc.sh %s ; rm \-f \-\- %s\fR

# This would delete 100 meg or larger files in your home
.br 
# directory.
.br 
\fBS	100M		~				rm \-f \-\- %s\fR

# (root) Log rotation, make sure it's bash for this.  this will
.br 
# rotate *.log files in /var/log when they grow over 10MB. (the
.br 
# word\-wrap shown here is assumed to be on one line)
.br 
\fBSHELL=/bin/bash\fR
.br 
\fBS	10M		/var/log/*.log		for ((i=5;i>=0;i\-\-)); do mv
.br 
\-f %s.$i %s.$[i+1]; done; mv \-f %s %s.0; touch %s\fR

.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
environmental variables can be set by placing \fBVAR=VALUE\fR on a blank line in your \fI~/.sample\fR file.

\fBsample\fR interface variables:
.PP 
.TP 
\fBEDITOR\fR
used to determine the text editor to edit the \fI~/.sample\fR file
.TP 
\fBPATH\fR
used to determine the path of the text editor
.SH "FILES"
~/.sample
.br 
/etc/sampletab/
.br 
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by v9/fakehalo. [v9@fakehalo.us]
.SH "BUGS"
Report bugs to <v9@fakehalo.us>.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2007 fakehalo.
.br 
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
samples(1) sample.conf(5) sampled(8) samputil(8)
