.\" sample single-instance client/interface manual page. (sample spooler)
.TH "SAMPLES" "1" "August 2007" "fakehalo" "Sample"
.SH "NAME"
samples \- interface to add and delete ~/.sample_spool/ files
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsamples\fR \fBadd\fR [\fB\-\fR<\fIuser\fR>] <\fIfile\fR> <\fItype\fR> <\fItime\fR|\fIsize\fR> <\fIexec\fR> [\fIttl\fR] [\fIshell\fR]

\fBsamples\fR \fBdel\fR [\fB\-\fR<\fIuser\fR>] <\fIfile\fR> ...

\fBsamples\fR \fBwipe\fR [\fB\-\fR<\fIuser\fR>]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
\fBsamples\fR is the single\-instance version of \fBsample\fR, if you have not read the \fBsample\fR manual yet you should read it first, as it contains the basic syntax used.  

the \fBsamples\fR program creates and deletes files in \fI~/.sample_spool/\fR, which contain the exact same syntax/functionality as a \fI~/.sample\fR file.  the only two differences between a \fI~/.sample\fR file and a file in \fI~/.sample_spool/\fR is that after a command is triggered or a time\-to\-live limit is hit, the file in \fI~/.sample_spool/\fR will be deleted, making it a single\-instance.

\fBsamples\fR is designed to monitor a single file per sample file.  however, this is not required.  custom files may be dropped in \fI~/.sample_spool/\fR and treated the same as a \fI~/.sample\fR file, except it is deleted afterwords. 

if no file is matched (ie. it was deleted/moved) during a \fBsampled\fR processor run of \fI~/.sample_spool/\fR, it will delete the corresponding single-instance sample file automatically.
.SH "OPTIONS"
if \fBsamples\fR is run as root you can specify the \fB\-\fR<\fIuser\fR> argument to run \fBsamples\fR for a specified user, instead of root. (ie. "\-nobody")

.TP 
\fBadd\fR [\fB\-\fR<\fIuser\fR>] <\fIfile\fR> <\fItype\fR> <\fItime\fR|\fIsize\fR> <\fIexec\fR> [\fIttl\fR] [\fIshell\fR]
add a single\-instance sample file that does the following, in literal form:

"if \fItype\fR has past \fItime\fR for \fIfile\fR then run \fIexec\fR"

OR, for filesize comparisons (where \fItype\fR is \fBS\fR or \fBs\fR):

"if \fItype\fR is larger/smaller than \fIsize\fR for \fIfile\fR then run \fIexec\fR"

if \fIttl\fR is specified; the single\-instance sample file will be deleted after the specified period of time.  the \fIttl\fR time format is the same as for monitoring times (ie. "1Y6M" is 1.5 years)

if \fIshell\fR is specified; "SHELL=\fIshell\fR" will be placed in the single\-instance sample file (this may or may not be allowed depending on your \fIsample.conf\fR configuration)
.TP 
\fBdel\fR [\fB\-\fR<\fIuser\fR>] <\fIfile\fR> ...
delete single\-instance sample file(s) that are monitoring \fIfile\fR.  multiple \fIfile\fR arguments allowed
.TP 
\fBwipe\fR [\fB\-\fR<\fIuser\fR>]
deletes all single\-instance sample files
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.PP 

.PP 
.TP 
example \fBsamples\fR command\-line usage might look like:

\fB# samples add ~/README.TXT A 1w "mv \-\- %s ~/old" 1M\fR

this example would monitor ~/README.TXT to see if it has been read/accessed (A) in the last week, if not it will execute "mv \-\- %s ~/old" and delete the corresponding sample file in \fI~/.sample_spool/\fR, so not to execute it again.  if the file is consistently read for 1 month the sample file will be deleted even though the command was never executed, as it hit the time\-to\-live (ttl)

\fB# samples del ~/README.TXT\fR

this example would delete any corresponding sample file(s) that are montioring ~/README.TXT
.SH "FILES"
~/.sample_spool/
.br 
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by v9/fakehalo. [v9@fakehalo.us]
.SH "BUGS"
Report bugs to <v9@fakehalo.us>.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2007 fakehalo.
.br 
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sample(1) sample.conf(5) sampled(8) samputil(8)
